\section {\Module\ Interfaces}
\label{sec:interfaces}

A complete \Kudos configuration is composed of many \modules. By breaking file
system code into small, stackable \modules, we are able to significantly
increase code reuse. Between block devices and high-level file system
operations, we add an additional interface that helps to divide file system
implementations into common (reusable) code and file system-specific code. We
call this intermediate interface the ``Low-level File System'' (LFS). This new
interface is a departure from other stackable \module\ systems, like
FiST~\cite{zadok00fist}, which stack higher-level operations.

The LFS interface has functions to allocate blocks, add blocks to files,
allocate file names, and other file system micro-ops. A \module\ implementing
the LFS interface should define how bits are laid out on the disk, but doesn't
have to know how to combine the micro-ops into larger, more familiar file system
operations. A generic VFS-to-LFS \module\ decomposes the larger file write,
read, append, and other standard operations into LFS micro-ops. This one
\module\ can be used with many different LFS \modules\ implementing different
file systems.

\begin{figure}[tb]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[height=3in]{fig/figures_1}
  \caption{A running \Kudos configuration. {\it/} is a soft updated
    file system on an IDE drive; {\it/loop} is an externally journaled
    file system on loop devices.}
  \label{fig:kfs-graph}
\end{figure}

Figure~\ref{fig:kfs-graph} shows a contrived example taking advantage of the LFS
interface and \chdescs. A file system image is mounted with an external journal,
both of which are loop devices on the root file system, which uses soft updates.
The journaled file system's ordering requirements are sent through the loop
device as \chdescs, allowing dependency information to be maintained across
boundaries that might otherwise lose that information. In contrast, without
\chdescs\ and the ability to forward \chdescs\ through loop devices, BSD cannot
express soft updates' consistency requirements through loop-back file systems.
